Control API Architecture (#63)
appuio/appuio-io-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/architecture/control-api-user.adoc

= {controlapi}: User

TIP: This resource implements the xref:references/functional-requirements/portal.adoc#_feature_personal_settings_per_user["Personal Settings per User"] feature.

== Object

.CRD based
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: appuio.io/v1
kind: User
metadata:
  name: bec0d928-2ae2-4cec-94a0-5f72f12b8b39 <1>
spec:
  displayName: Kate Demo
  email: kate@demo.com
  defaultOrganizationRef: acme-corp
status: <2>
  displayName: Kate Demo
  username: kate.demo
  email: kate@demo.com
  defaultOrganizationRef: acme-corp
----
<1> User ID in Keycloak
<2> Reflects actual configuration from adapter and exposes read-only fields

== Access control

As this is a cluster-scoped resource, access control has to be defined in the cluster scope.
For each `User` object, a `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` is available, which grants edit rights to the subject (owner) which relates to the `User`.

[source,yaml]
----

> kind: ClusterRole

Author: It is generated and maintained in the background.

> == Access control
> 
> As this is a cluster-scoped resource, access control has to be defined in the cluster scope.
> For each `User` object, a `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` is available, which grants edit rights to the subject (owner) which relates to the `User`.
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> kind: ClusterRole

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning
```suggestion
== Access control

As this is a cluster-scoped resource, access control has to be defined in the cluster scope.
For each `User` object, a `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` is generated in the background, which grants edit rights to the subject (owner) which relates to the `User`.

[source,yaml]
----
kind: ClusterRole
```

= {controlapi}: User

TIP: This resource implements the xref:references/functional-requirements/portal.adoc#_feature_personal_settings_per_user["Personal Settings per User"] feature.

== Object

.CRD based
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: appuio.io/v1
kind: User
metadata:
  name: bec0d928-2ae2-4cec-94a0-5f72f12b8b39 <1>
spec:
  displayName: Kate Demo

>   username: kate.demo

Reviewer 2: We decided to disalow changes to the `username` (https://github.com/appuio/appuio-io-docs/blob/8e54da6bf5cb4bf7f2154793115c50a1aaf12e7e/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanation/decisions/stable-usernames.adoc). Should this then be shown in `status` or would an admission controller take care of it?

Author: True that, updated accordingly.
